# Kickstarter-Analysis
Module 1 Practice: Performing analysis on kickstarter data to uncover trends
# Module 1 Challenge: Louise’s Play Kickstarter Data Project

## Overview of Project
### Analyzing kickstarter data 
- Louise’s play *Fever* fell short of its pledged donation goals and therefore failed. She has compiled a dataset of kickstarter data projects in many different fields of entertainment and has asked to see how her campaign compared to others. 
## Analysis
- It has been decided that there should be two ways to analyze this data, to look at outcomes based on launch dates and outcomes based on the plays’ goals. The same dataset was used for both analysis, outcomes based on launch dates uses the parent category of theater, which includes plays and musicals. Whereas outcomes based on goals will just be looking at plays. It will be mentioned again for later reference, Louise’s play released in June of 2016 and had a $2,885. 
### Theater Outcomes Based on Launch Date
#### Go to the *Theater Outcomes by Launch Date* sheet in the excel file
- The line graph “Theater Outcomes Based on Launch Date” gives a visual representation for the trends for the three possible outcomes. At the begging of the calendar year, the theater has an up and down start with successful projects. After March, begins an upward trend in success and after April there is a big spike with May having the highest amount of success for the theater. A key thing to note is that after May, the slope of the line has decreased, making the line flatter and the number of successful projects doesn’t go below March until November.
- Another trend of the lines is that there is no intersection. Which means that there is a good chance that the a theater will always receive more successful projects then failed or canceled ones. December is the only month where and intersection is close but successful is still slightly above the failed marker. 
- A final thing to note, is that May has had the most success and July has had very high success as well, but May has the highest amount of failed projects and July is tied with October having the second most failed projects. 
### Outcomes based on Goals 
#### Go to the *Outcomes based on Goals* sheet in the excel file
- This time we look at outcomes of just the plays, a sub category of theater, and comparing the outcomes to the goal of the play. 
- Right away, the lines of percentage successful and failed intercept each other three different times, in an almost logarithmic fashion. At the beginning, at less than 1000, success is greater than failure. The lines then intercept at the 15,000 to 19,999 range. The lines then flip, to where failure is greater than success. The lines then intercept again somewhere in between the 30,000 to 34,999 and 35,000 to 39,999 ranges. Thus flipping one more time and intercepting for the last time in between the 40,000 to 44,999 and 45,000 to 49,999 ranges. Another thing to note is that percentage canceled line is completely flat and is on the x-axis, showing that no plays get canceled. 
- A big thing to note on this graph are the markers for the success and failed lines at the 45,000 to 49,999 range, is that failure is at 100% and success is at 0%. It’s hard to imagine that no plays within this range weren’t made but according to the data collected that is true.
## Challenges
- One challenge with Outcomes Based on Goal was that the goal ranges may have skewed the data. There were a total of 1,047 projects in this table, and over 800 projects fell into the first three ranges. These results show an accurate story but possibly slightly skewed. However, breaking up the ranges even more would cause for a lot of x-values and could clutter the graph, so this challenge is better to just be accounted for instead of adjusted for.   
- Not a lot of challenges analyzing data but there are challenges within the data. One challenge is that the data used also includes values from different countries. Different countries have different traditions and cultures, this may affect the launch day of plays by what is going on. When dealing with outcomes based on goals, the biggest concern would be with currency exchange rates, with exchange rates changing fluently, the exchange rate could have changed from when the data was inputted.
## Results and Conclusions
### Results: Theater Outcomes by Launch Date
- First, we can see that May and June have the two highest success numbers but also the two highest total number of projects. However, over half of the months had over 100 total projects, but only May and June had 100 or more successful. In May, there were 111 successful projects out of 166 and in June, there were 100 successful theater projects out of 153. In May, just around two-thirds of projects are successful and June is just under that two-thirds mark, which are high success rates. More importantly, May only had 52 failed projects and only 49 of the June projects failed, which means both months had less than one-third of the projects failed. What this is beginning to show is that the projects will have a greater marginal success rates if started in May or June. 
- Looking at the graph, the gap between successful and failed stays pretty similar through January to March. After March, the gap begins to widen and peak in May. After May, the successful line begins to decline steadily while the failed line stays almost flat, showing that the margin of success decreases as the year goes on. Then in September, the gap is around the same size as January and February, and then goes smaller and is almost nonexistent in December. In fact, December had 37 successful projects, 35 failed and 3 canceled, making for 75 total. There are more successful projects then failed, which technically means there is a better chance for success, but that chance is still under 50%. 
#### Conclusions: Theater Outcomes by Launch Date
One conclusion that can be made is that launching a theater project sometime between March and June will give you the highest chance of a successful theater project. Particularly in May and June, there is over a 66.67% chance that the projects don’t fail based on their launch dates. Another conclusion, is that there is a seasonal/calendar effect on the outcomes of theater projects. March and September seemingly share around the same number and rate of successful projects. However, after March the chances of success increase whereas after September, the chances of success decrease until December. 
### Results: Outcomes Based on Goals
- As mentioned above, the graph begins with percentage of successful is greater than percentage of failed, and then the lines begin to take a logarithmic trend, intercepting each other 3 times. The percent of success is at its highest for the first two ranges: less than 1000 and 1,000 to 4,999, and they don’t go above 70% after that. Right after that, percentage of failure begins to rise and then spikes to 80%, which at this point along the two lines, is the highest percentage out of the outcomes. The lines then flip to where percentage of success is above 60% for 35,000 to 39,999 and 40,000 to 44,999. After that, the lines intercept once more and flip but this time, go to the max and failure is at 100%. This is shocking because running analytics on data, nothing is ever one hundred percent. So checking back at table, the results show there is only 1 total play in this range. This could be do to a human error from entering the data, or a lot of plays don’t have high demanding goals. 
#### Conclusions: Outcomes Based on Goals
- One conclusion that can be made from this table and graph is that the lower the goal is, the higher the chance of it being a success. Which makes sense, less money, there is more likely a chance for the project to be put on. The projects that ask for more than 15,000 to 19,999 have far less chances of success but there is still chances for some projects. 
### Overall Conclusion
- Louise’s play *Fever* should have been successful according to the data. Theater projects launched in June had the second highest successful outcomes and over a 66.67% chance of not failing based on the launch date. Louise’s play had a goal of $2,885, which is in the range that had the highest value and second highest percentage of successful plays. According to this data, Louise chose the right launch date and set a valid funding goal but still failed. With the steps taken here, it should be concluded that Louise should not look into her launch date, but more of her funding techniques. To be more precise, not to worry about the data of other theatrical performances. She launched at a good time and asked for an achievable goal and according to the data she should have been more than successful.
- We have complied enough analysis to know that there launch date and fundraising goal are not the cause of her play failing, rather it could be another piece of data or some external force that resulted Louise's play to fail. 
### Limitations & Potential Additional Tables and Graphs
#### Limitations
- Particularly with theatrical projects, like plays, not having data on who the director is might have some weight with both results, since the theater data also includes musicals. Knowing who is producing or directing a performance has effect on people or groups backing projects and pledging money. This may have been Louise’s first project, therefore not many people may have wanted to pledge money because they don’t know who she is. The flip side could also be that this isn’t Louise’s first time trying to launch a play and people know she won’t follow through or deliver. Based on launch date and goal, Louise had some of the highest percentage to be succesful but still failed. 
#### Potential Additional Tables and Graphs
##### Add-ons for Theater Outcomes by Launch Date
- An additional table to add would also be a frequency table accompanied by an 100% stacked column bar graph. This would give Louise an idea on the frequency on how many theater projects are successful per month. For instance, January and March have the same amount of successful projects, 56, but March would have a higher success percentage because they only had 92 projects, compared to January’s 96 projects. Being able to look at a frequency chart would also help with look at the marginal success of projects like mentioned in the results will visually show chances of success are high but lower as the summer months go on.  
##### Add-ons for Outcomes based on Goals 
- There isn’t really much else to add on here except to better analyze the variance between the goal amounts in the data. Changing the ranges will influence the lines but not by that much, but it will give a more of an accurate line, but the problem of clustering the x-axis can make this an issue which would make reading the results harder.     
##### Other Add-ons
- Another graph would be to add a line graph on the outcomes and the amount of backers. This will be helpful because this will help measure whether the amount of backers have a bigger impact, or if it’s the dollar amount that the backers are giving. If more backers produced more success, kickstarting projects should then worry about reaching more people, so even with low average donations, there will still be enough for success. If higher average donations produced more success, then it would be important to reach out to a certain demographic for funding in order to get low backers but higher amount of donations. 
